.TH ged2gwb 1 "2002 October 20th"
.SH NAME
ged2gwb \- Create a GeneWeb database from a GEDCOM file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ged2gwb
[
.I \<ged\>
] [
.I options
]
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I ged2gwb
creates a starter database for use by 
.IR GeneWeb 
, from a GEDCOM file. 
.PP
The primary documentation of
.I ged2gwb 
is in the wiki page
.B https://geneweb.tuxfamily.org/wiki/man#Command_lines_operation
.PP
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
.TP 8
.B \-help
command-line help
.TP
.B \-o <file>
output database (default: a.gwb)
.TP
.B \-f 
Remove database if already existing
.TP
.B \-log <file>
Redirect log trace to this file.
.TP
.B \-lf    
- Lowercase first names -
.br
Convert first names to lowercase letters, with initials in
uppercase.
.TP
.B \-ls    
- Lowercase surnames -
.br
Convert surnames to lowercase letters, with initials in
uppercase. Try to keep lowercase particles.
.TP
.B \-us    
- Uppercase surnames -
.br
Convert surnames to uppercase letters.
.TP
.B \-fne be 
- First names enclosed -
.br
When creating a person, if the GEDCOM first name part holds
a part between 'b' (any character) and 'e' (any character), it
is considered to be the usual first name: e.g. -fne '""' or
-fne "()".
.TP
.B \-efn   
- Extract first names -
.br
When creating a person, if the GEDCOM first name part holds several
names, the first of this names becomes the person "first name" and
the complete GEDCOM first name part a "first name alias".
.TP
.B \-no_efn   
- Don't extract first names - [default]
.br
Cancels the previous option.
.TP
.B \-epn   
- Extract public names - [default]
When creating a person, if the GEDCOM first name part looks like a
public name, i.e. holds:
.br
	* a number or a roman number, supposed to be a number of a nobility title,
.br
	* one of the words: "der", "den", "die", "el", "le", "la", "the", supposed to be the beginning of a qualifier,
then the GEDCOM first name part becomes the person "public name"
and its first word his "first name".
.TP
.B \-no_epn 
Cancels the previous option.
.TP
.B \-no_pit  
- No public if titles -
.br
Do not consider persons having titles as public
.TP
.B \-tnd   
- Try negative dates -
.br
Set negative dates when inconsistency (e.g. birth after death)
.TP
.B \-no_nd  
- No negative dates -
.br
Don't interpret a year preceded by a minus sign as a negative year
.TP
.B \-udi x-y   
- Undefined death interval -
.br
Set the interval for persons whose death part is undefined:
.br
       - if before x years, they are considered as alive
.br
       - if after y year, they are considered as death
.br
       - between x and y year, they are considered as "don't know"
.br
       Default x is 80 and y is 120
.TP
.B \-uin  
- Untreated in notes -
.br
Put untreated GEDCOM tags in notes
.TP
.B \-ds  
- Default source -
.br
Set the source field for persons and families without source data
.TP
.B \-dates_dm 
Interpret months-numbered dates as day/month/year
.TP
.B \-dates_md 
Interpret months-numbered dates as month/day/year
.TP
.B \-charset [ANSEL|ASCII|MSDOS] 
- charset decoding -
.br
Force given charset decoding, overriding the possible setting in GEDCOM


