.TH gwu 1 "2002 October 16th"
.SH NAME
gwu \- Dump a GeneWeb database
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B gwu
[
.I options
] \<
.I base_file
\>
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I
gwu 
dumps the contents of the 
.IR GeneWeb 
database to standard output.
It's  a  good  way  to  backup  the database in a neutral form, and can
facilitate upgrades to new software.
.PP
The primary documentation of 
.I gwu 
is in the HTML documentation, which
you  can find in the documentation directory (/usr/share/doc/geneweb on
Debian systems).
.br
Please look there for complete and up-to-date documentation.
.PP
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
.TP 20
.B \-help
command-line help
.TP
.B  \-o <file>    
output file name (else stdout)
.TP
.B  \-odir <dir>  
create files from original name in directory (else on -o file)
.TP
.B  \-mem         
save memory space, but slower
.TP
.B  \-a "<1st_name>" [num] "<surname>" 
select ancestors of ...
.TP
.B  \-d "<1st_name>" [num] "<surname>"
select descendants of ...
.TP
.B  \-ad "<1st_name>" [num] "<surname>"
select ancestors of ... and all their descendants (has no effect if \-a and/or \-d used, option \-nsp is forced).
.TP
.B  \-aws "<1st_name>" [num] "<surname>" 
select ancestors with siblings
.TP
.B  \-s "<surname>"
select this surname (option usable several times)
.TP
.B  \-nsp
no spouses' parents (for options -s and -d)
.TP
.B  \-nn
no (database) notes
.TP
.B  \-c <num>
When a person is born less than <num> years ago, it is not exported unless
it is Public. All the spouses and descendants are also censored.
.TP
.B  \-sep "1st_name.num surname"
To use together with the option "-odir": separate this person and
all his ancestors and descendants sharing the same surname. All the
concerned families are displayed on standard output instead of their
associated files. This option can be used several times.
.TP
.B  \-sep_only_file <file>
With option "-sep", tells to separate only groups of that file.
.TP
.B  \-sep_limit <num>
When using the option "-sep", groups of families can become isolated
in the files. Gwu reconnects them to the separated families (i.e.
displays them to standard output) if the size of these groups is less
than 21. The present option changes this limit.
